README.md, before:

#API [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/BikeTrack/API.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/BikeTrack/API)

Fourth version of our API for the EIP (Epitech Innovating Project) named : BikeTrack.
____________


## Get started

### Prerequisite
>Node (tested with v6 and v7) and NPM already installed on your computer.

```javascript
if (!node) {
    return "https://nodejs.org/en/download/"
} else {
    return "Good to Go!"
}
```

### Clone the depot
```bash
cd where/you/want
git clone git@github.com:BikeTrack/API.git
```

### Install the libraries
```bash
cd where/you/want/API
npm install
```

### Environment Variable & Security
To secure the API we load some credential and an API Key as an environment variable.
Thanks to the middleware dotenv included in `package.json` we can manage this easily.


1. Create a `.env` file at the root of the project. The file will be read at start and automatically set the variables.
2. Add 3 variables in your file:
```javascript
MONGO_USER //Your Mongo username
MONGO_PASS //Your Mongo password
API_KEY_APP //An API Key to secure the client/server communication
```
#### Exemple :
```javascript
//.env
MONGO_USER=foo
MONGO_PASS=bar
API_KEY_APP=1234567890
```

### Run Project
####3 ways

* Classic

`npm start`

* With File Watcher

> if [nodemon](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodemon) is not installed first :
`npm install nodemon -g`

`nodemon`

* The best option with app monitoring, file watcher and much more...

> if [PM2](http://pm2.keymetrics.io) is not installed first :
`npm install -g pm2`

`pm2 start app.js`

### Unit Test

> Start a mongoDB deamon locally
> Then launch the test

```bash
mongod --fork --logpath /var/log/mongod.log
npm test
```
> --fork : to run mongo in the background
--logpath /var/log/mongod.log : to specify where to write mongoDB logs

Made by [Gil Felot](gfelot.xyz) with ❤️

Commit message:

Add node-gyp install in the README and some modification on the endpoint to test /bike

README.md, after:

#API [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/BikeTrack/API.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/BikeTrack/API)

Fourth version of our API for the EIP (Epitech Innovating Project) named : BikeTrack.
____________


## Get started

### 1. Prerequisite
>Node (tested with v6 and v7) and NPM already installed on your computer.

```javascript
if (!node) {
    return "https://nodejs.org/en/download/"
} else {
    return "Good to Go!"
}
```

### 2. Clone the depot
```bash
cd where/you/want
git clone git@github.com:BikeTrack/API.git
```

### 3. Add Node-gyp for the cryptographic librarie
> see https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp for Prerequisite depending on the platforme

```bash
npm install -g node-gyp
```

### 4. Install the libraries
```bash
cd where/you/want/API
npm install
```

### 5. Environment Variable & Security
To secure the API we load some credential and an API Key as an environment variable.
Thanks to the middleware dotenv included in `package.json` we can manage this easily.


1. Create a `.env` file at the root of the project. The file will be read at start and automatically set the variables.
2. Add 3 variables in your file:
```javascript
MONGO_USER //Your Mongo username
MONGO_PASS //Your Mongo password
API_KEY_APP //An API Key to secure the client/server communication
```
#### Exemple :
```javascript
//.env
MONGO_USER=foo
MONGO_PASS=bar
API_KEY_APP=1234567890
```

### 6. Run Project
#### 3 ways

* Classic

`npm start`

* With File Watcher

> if [nodemon](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodemon) is not installed first :
`npm install nodemon -g`

`nodemon`

* The best option with app monitoring, file watcher and much more...

> if [PM2](http://pm2.keymetrics.io) is not installed first :
`npm install -g pm2`

`pm2 start app.js`

### Unit Test

> Start a mongoDB deamon locally
> Then launch the test

```bash
mongod --fork --logpath /var/log/mongod.log
npm test
```
> --fork : to run mongo in the background
--logpath /var/log/mongod.log : to specify where to write mongoDB logs

Made by [Gil Felot](gfelot.xyz) with ❤️
